- Technical Support Fundamentals 

8 bits = 1 byte
each byte can store 1 character and we can have 256 possible values thanks to the base-2 system (2*8)

transistors

logic gates

- Computer Networking
- Operating Systems 
- Sys admin and infrastructure services 
- IT security 


Computer is cut into 4 layers 
1) hardware
-port = connection point that we can connect devices to that extend the functionality of our computer 
cpu = central processing unit - brain of computer - does all the calculations and data processing   communicates with 
RAM = random access memory (computer's short-term memory)
Hard drive = holds all data we want to keep which includes pictures and music and applications
motherboard = holds all components in place and allows the parts to communicate with each other 
power supply

programs = instructions that tell computers what to do 
we store programs on durable media like hard drives (recipes in cookbooks are like apps stored on a hard drive) 

External Data Bus (EDB) wires that send the data - binary is sent through these 

Registers (inside CPU) - let us store the data that the CPU works with 

Memory controller chip (MCC) is a bridge between the CPU and the RAM

Address Bus connects CPU to the MCC and sends over the location of the data but not the data itself. MCC takes the address and 
looks for the data. Then the data is sent over the EDB.

RAM isn't the fastest way to get data to the CPU for processing 

Cache does. It is smaller than RAM but let's us store data that we you use most often and let's us quickly reference it. RAM is like a fridge 
full of food. It's easy to get into but it takes a little bit of time. Cache is like food in our pockets. Used to store recently or 
frequently accessed data.

there are 3 levels 

L1, L2, and L3    L1 is the smallest and fastest 

How does a CPU know when one set of instructions end and a new one begins? 
- clock wire 

overclocking tries to speed up the clock cycles but can overheat your GPU

CPU manufacturers or chipsets 

-QUALCOMM
-Intel
-AMD

CPU has to be compatible with the motherboard 
-LGA- Land Grid Array 
- PGA- Pin Grid Array

CPU is purchased with a 32 bit or 64 bit architecture (see supplemental readings for more info about difference)

heat sink keeps computer from overheating

There are lots of types of RAM 

DRAM - type of RAM - stores each bit in a microscopic capacitor (this is either the charge or discharge represented by 1's and 0's). These 
semi-conductors are put into chips that are on the RAM and store our data. There are different types of memory states that DRAM chips can
be put on. More modern DIMM sticks (dual inline memory module) (have different sizes of pins on them). We don't buy RAM based on the number
of DRAM chips they have. RAM sticks have to be compatible with mother board. My computer uses VRAM

Motherbaords 
-made of two chipsets 
** Northbridge (interconnects RAM and video cards **Southbridge (maintains IO or input/output controllers like harddrives and USB devices)
some modern CPUs directly integrate the Northbridge into the CPU so there isn't a seperate chipset 

CPU data and peripherals (mouse, keyboard, monitor) are managed by the chipset 

Expansion slots allow users to increase a computer's functionality 

The PCI is the standard for an expansion slot. Express or Peripheral Component Interconnect Express. A PCIe bus looks like a slot on the 
motherboard. and a PCIe base expansion card looks like a smaller circuit board. 

Form factor - there are different sizes of motherboards available today. These sizes of form factors determine the amount of stuff we can
put in it and the amount of space we'll have. 

ATX (advanced technology eXtended) (comes in different sizes) is the most common form factor for motherboards. If you don't want to use an ATX you can use an ITX (information
technology eXtended form factor). The ITX is smaller than the ATX. The form factor plays a role into what expansion slots you might want to use.

Data Sizes :
-smallest unit of data storage is a bite
- 8 bits = 1 byte 
1024 bytes = 1 kilobyte(kb)
1024 kbs = 1 megabyte(mb)
1024 megabytes = 1 gigabyte(gb)
1024 gb's = 1 terabyte

Remember that USB 2.0 has a bandwidth of 480 Mb/s, which is roughly 60MB of data transfer per second. 
60mb/s
USB 3.0 has a bandwidth of 5Gb/s which is roughly 640MB/s. 
640mb/s
You can refer to the video on "Peripherals" to review this content.

there are 2 types of hard drives
1) hard disks (hdd) (rpm is the revolution per minute - basically the speed in which data is read and written) 
a hard drive with a higher RPM is faster. HDDs are prone to damage because there are a lot of moving parts. This susceptibility to damage 
went away with a new type of drive called an SSD (solid state drive). SSD's have no moving parts. 
-there are also hybrid SSD's and HDD's 

2) there are a few interfaces that the hard drives use to connect to connect to our system. ATA interfaces are the most common ones.
Most popular ATA is serial ATA or SATA which uses one cable for data transfers. SATA drives are hot swappable (you don't have to turn off your
machine to plug in a SATA drive) but SATAs haven't been able to keep up with faster and faster SSDs so a new interface standards were created
called NVM express or NVMe. Instead of using a cable to connect your drive to your machine the drive was added as an expansion slot which 
allows for greater throughput of data and increased efficiency 

Computers have a power supply that converts electricity from your volt to something useful.
There are 2 types - DC (direct current) and AC (alternating current which changes direction all the time). Computers use DC so the power supply
in the computer converts AC from the power company. Our power supply converts the AC from the wall into low voltage DC power that we can use and
transmit throughout the computer.

Most power supply units have a fan. They also have voltage information and cables to power motherboard and a power cable.

The amount of electricity coming out is called current or (amperage) and it's measured in amps. Amps pull electricity and volts push 
electricity. Amps will pull as much electricity as is needed and volts will give you everything.

The back of a device charger may have a 1 or 2.1a. A 2.1a (2.1 amps) will charge a device faster).

Wattage - the amount of volts and amps a device needs. If you are playing video games or making videos on your computer you'll need a larger 
wattage

Small devices use SoC(system on a chip)(packs RAM, CPU and sometimes even storage onto a chip). They're small and use less battery power than
if those components were separated. 

Mobile devices, smart watches can all be peripherals. 

Standard power, data, and display connector types found in mobile devices are : 
USB-C, lightening adapter, Mini-USB, and a Micro-USB, a Micro-HDMI, and a Mini-HDMI, and this is a Mini DisplayPort. 

Because mobile devices are generally small and have limited access to power,
they run operating systems and applications software that specifically designed to maximize their performance.

Mobile technology uses rechargeable batteries to carry power with the device, 
wherever we take it. Rechargeable devices might have an external charger for a removable batteries, 
or might have a cradle stand or wireless charger. 
So rechargeable devices might have an external charger for movable battery, or might have a cradle stand or wireless charger.

Rechargeable batteries have a limited lifespan which is measured in charge cycles.
Charge cycle is one full charge and discharge of the battery. 
When a battery is reaching the end of its lifespan, it may take longer to charge and might not hold as much charge as when it was new.
For some devices, compare the current cycle count of your battery with the rate at cycle count of that battery type to see 
how much more life to expect out of it. 
You need an external power source to add power to a battery. 
This could come from a wall outlet, another battery, or even a solar panel.
You also need a charging circuit that manages the power transfer from the external power source to the rechargeable battery. 
This circuit works a lot like a power supply unit or PSU
It makes sure the input power is converted to the correct output power. 
Instead of using a large PSU, rechargeable devices use more portable power adapters, power supplies, or chargers. 
A portable power supply, powers our device while also charging the battery. 

Mismatching chargers to devices can damage the battery, the device, and the charger. 
A lot of chargers and power supplies use USB connectors, but you'll see a wide variety of charging connectors. 
Rechargeable batteries can be damaged by very cold or very hot environments. 
Don't charge or discharge rechargeable batteries unless they're within their safe operating temperature range. 
It's not just that a damaged rechargeable battery might not perform well, it can also be very dangerous.
Batteries can swell, rupture, and sometimes even catch fire. 
Before working with a damaged battery, you should know how to safely handle it.
You'll find some supplemental readings after this video that explains how to safely handle lithium ion batteries,
which is a very common type of rechargeable battery. Safe handling procedures vary based on the battery type, 
so be sure to read up on proper procedures before you work with a damaged batter.
When a battery reaches the end of its life, you'll need to replace it. 
Some devices will slow themselves down when a battery is getting old, to make the battery lasts longer. 
If your device is running much slower than usual or shutting down unexpectedly, one thing to check is the battery life. 
Some devices have batteries that are designed to be replaced by the end user, other devices have batteries that are 
very difficult to replace like small laptops and mobile devices. As an IT support specialist, 
you might receive special training on how to replace batteries and devices that you support, 
or you might be the person sending the device out for battery replacement and then returning the device to the end user.

MB is megabyte or unit of data storage, while capital M lower case b forward slash s is a megabit per second, 
which is a unit of data transfer rate.
People often mistake speeds of 40 megabit per second to mean that you can transfer 40 megabytes of data per second. 
Remember, that one byte is 8 bits, so to transfer a one megabyte file in a second 
you need an 8 megabits per second connection speed. 
So, to transfer 40 megabytes of data in a second, you need a transfer speed of 320 megabits per second. 

If you connect a USB 2.0 device into a USB 3.0 port, you won't get 3.0 transfer speeds.
But you can still use the port since it's backward compatible, meaning older hardware work with newer hardware. 
The ports are easy to differentiate. Let me show you. In general, USB 2.0 are black and USB 3.0 are blue and 3.1 ports are teal. 
This may change depending on manufacturers. There are lots of types of USB connectors

The most recent one is the type C connector which is meant to replace many peripheral connections. 
It's quickly becoming a universal standard for display and data transfer. In addition to USB peripherals, 
you should also be aware of display peripherals. There are some common inputs standards to know. 
Most computer monitors will have one or more of these connections, but you might encounter some older standards too. 
DVI. DVI cables generally just output video. If you need to hook up a monitor or projector for a slide presentation and 
you want audio too, you may be out of luck. Instead, you want to look at one of the following cables. HDMI. 
This has become a standard in lots of televisions and computers nowadays and outputs both video and audio. 
Another standard that's become popular among manufacturers is a displayPort which also outputs audio and video. 
In addition to audio and video, USB type C can also do data transfer and power. 

Services or Drivers

If you just clicked on the key from your keyboard, you'd only be sending a byte to the CPU.
The CPU doesn't know what this is, because it doesn't have instructions on how to deal with it. 
Turns out our devices also use programs to tell the CPU how to run them. 
These programs are called services or drivers. The drivers contain the instructions our CPU 
needs to understand external devices like keyboards, webcams, printers. Our CPU doesn't know 
that there is a device that it can talk to, so it has to connect to something called the BIOS, or 
basic input output services. The BIOS is software that helps initialize the hardware in our computer and 
gets our operating system up and running.

Unlike the programs, you're probably used to running a web browser or operating system.
The BIOS isn't stored on a hard drive. Our motherboard stores the BIOS in a special type of memory called, 
the read-only memory chip, or ROM chip.

Unlike RAM, ROM is non-volatile, meaning it won't erase the data if the computer is turned off. 
Once the operating system loads, we're able to load drivers from non-essential devices, directly
from the hard drive. In today's system, there is another player for BIOS called UEFI, which stands 
for Unified Extensible Firmware Interface. UEFI performs the same function of starting your computer 
as a traditional BIOS. But it's more modern and has better compatibility and support for newer hardware. 
Most hardware out there today comes with UEFI built in. Eventually, UEFI will become the predominant BIOS.
When you turn on a computer, you might notice a beeping from time to time. How computers run a test to make 
sure all the hardware is working correctly. This is called a Power On Self Test or POST. And then BIOS runs it 
when you boot up your computer.

The POST figures out what hardware is on the computer. So it happens before the BIOS initializes any hardware or
loads up essential drivers. If there is an issue with anything at that point, there is no way to display it on the 
screen, since things like the video driver haven't been loaded. Instead, the computer can usually produce a series of beeps, 
almost like Morse code, which will help identify the problem. Different manufacturers have different beep codes. So, if your 
computer successfully boots up, you may hear a single beep.
If you hear two beeps, it could mean a POST error.

It's best to refer to your motherboard manual to find out what each code means. Also, you should know that not 
all machines have built-in speakers, so don't worry if your computer boots without a beep.

If it does have a built-in speaker, being able to distinguish what the beep codes mean is an extremely helpful 
tool when troubleshooting boot issues. One last thing, we will discuss are BIOS settings. There is a special chip 
on our motherboard called the CMOS chip.

It stores basic data about booting your computer like the date, time and how you wanted to start up. 
You can change these settings by booting into CMOS or BIOS setting menu. It varies in different computers,
but usually when you boot the computer, there will be a quick screen that tells you what button to push to get into the settings.
From there, you can change the basic BIOS settings of your machine.


RECAP 

technical problems one may encounter 
1) make sure components are compatible with motherboard
2) make sure there isn't an issue with the power supply - power supplies can fail for reasons like burnouts, power surges or lightning strikes
(knowing how to diagnose power issues and replace a failed power supply is a necessary skill) 
3) be sure to use the proper voltage for your electronics 
4) As an IT support specialist, you might be responsible for helping in users with their mobile devices.
This might include setup, troubleshooting, repairing, and replacing mobile devices.
5) IT support specialist often have to troubleshoot battery life and device charging. 
The first step is to make sure the charger, the battery, and the device, are all designed to work with each other. 
We'll talk about sending out devices for repair and troubleshooting skills in future videos, so stay tuned. 
For iOS and Android, there are also some things that you could do to make the battery lasts as long as possible.
It's a good idea for you to be familiar with these things so that you can help educate end users on the best ways 
to get the most out of their mobile devices.
6) As an IT support specialist, you'll work with peripherals like USB devices and display devices a lot. 
Now, you'll be able to distinguish between the major types.
7) An an IT support role, you might interact with the BIOS more often than you think. 
BIOS settings control which devices to boot to and in an IT role, you might need to change the settings more 
often than not. A frequently performed IT task is the reimaging of a computer. The term refers to a disk image which 
is a copy of an operating system. So the process of reimaging involves wiping and reinstalling an operating system. 
This procedure is typically performed using a program that's stored on some external device like a USB memory stick, 
or a CD ROM, or even a server accessible through the network. To access these programs and perform the reimage, you'll 
need to use the BIOS to tell the computer to boot up from that external device.
8) Understanding how computer hardware works is a really helpful skill set in IT support,
since an IT department maintains the hardware that a company uses.
A solid understanding of these computer internals will come in handy when troubleshooting hardware related problems, 
and taking things apart to see how they work is just super fine.
9) You probably work with computer hardware as an I.T. support specialist, replacing failed hard disks,
upgrading RAM modules, and installing video cards. So you need to be aware of what's out there.




2) software
3) operating system
4) users


(8 - 10 hours/week) completed in 8 months 
