CPU that is cooled by the heat sink 
The CPU is the brain of the computer 
The CPU does all the calculations and data processing
It comunicates to RAM (random access memory)
RAM is short-term memory
It is used to store data temporarily
Like typing something into a chat or a piece of text into a word processor 
Then there's the hard drive for storing long-term information
Then there's the motherboard
It holds everything in place and lets components talk to each other 
Then there's the power supply
It converts electricity from the wall into a form that the computer can use (DC)
All these components make up  most computers even a phone
The phone just uses a smaller version of these parts

Programs-tell computers what to do
CPU- does the things that the program tells to do
RAM-holds the information that the programs are giving to CPU so the CPU can work faster. This is faster than storing the information
into the hard drive.
The instructions to the CPU are written in binary 
The EDB (external data bus) carries the instructions around the computer (techincally a row of wires that interconnect parts of the computer)
When a voltage is sent to one of the wires you say that the state of the wire is on or 1   or it is off and 0
Bits physically travel around the computer with the EDB which comes in different sizes 8 bit, 16 bit, 32, even 64. 
When a CPU receives a byte it is stored on registers so the CPU can work with it. Even the answer is stored on registers
We don't send data from RAM over the EDB. This process happens with the MCC or memory controller chip. RAM has a shit ton of data and we need
to send it one byte at a time. CPU is connected to RAM through MCC
There's also and address bus which connects the CPU to the MCC and sends over the location of the data but not the data itself
The MCC then takes the address and looks for the data in RAM. Then the data is sent through the MCC to CPU
Cache can get data to CPU faster than RAM can L1 to L3. L1 is the smallest and fastest.
how does our CPU know when the set of instruction ends, and a new one begins?
CPU has an internal clock that keeps its operational in sync.
It connects to a special wire called Clock wire. When you send or receive data, it sends a voltage to that clock wire 
to let the CPU know it can start doing calculations. Think of our clock wires as the ticking of a clock. For every tick, 
the CPU does one cycle of operations. When you send a voltage to the clock wire, it's referred to as a clock cycle. 
If you have lots of data you need to process in a command. You need to run lots of clock cycles.
 3.4ghz, this number refers to the Clock speed of the CPU. Which is a maximum number of clock cycles that it can handle 
 in a set in a certain time period. 3.40 gigahertz is 3.4 billion cycles per second. That's super fast. But just because 
 it can run at this speed, doesn't mean it does. It just means that it can't exceed this number. Still, that number doesn't 
 stop some people from trying. There's a way you can exceed the number of clock cycles on your CPU on almost any device. 
 It's referred to as Overclocking and it increases the rate of your CPU clock cycles in order to perform more tasks. 
 This is commonly used to increase the performance in low-end CPUs. 
 
 Remember that transition book that I talked about in an earlier lesson? 
 The CPU uses this to translate and perform functions on our data. This transition book is called an instruction set, 
 which is literally just a list of instructions that our CPU is able to run. Functions like adding, subtracting, copying data 
 are all instructions that our CPU can carry out. Every single program on your computer, while extremely complex, is broken down
 into very small and simple instructions found in our instruction set. Instruction sets are hard-coded into our CPU. So different 
 CPU manufacturers may use different instructions sets. But they generally perform the same functions. 
 
 LGA or PGA (types of sockets connecting CPU to motherboard - make sure they're compatible)
 When we install our CPU, we need to do a few things to it to keep it cool. Since it does a lot of work, 
 it's prone to overheating. We have to make sure to include a heat sink, too, which takes the heat from our 
 CPU and dissipates it through a fan or another medium. There's one last thing I want to call out about CPUs. 
 If you purchase a CPU, you'll see that it has either a 32 bit or 64 bit architecture. What does that mean? Well, 
 we know we can't process 8 bits in binary. Now, imagine how we can process with 32 or even 64 bits. CPUs that have 
 32 bit or 64 bit architecture are just specifying how much data it can efficiently handle. You can read more about the 
 differences between 32 bit and 64 bit architecture in the next reading. For now, the main takeaway is that the CPU is one 
 of the most important parts of a computer.
 
 RAM
 We use RAM to store data that we want to access quickly. This data changes all the time so it isn't permanent. Almost 
 all RAM is volatile, which means that once we power off our machines, the data stored in RAM is cleared. Remember that our 
 computer is comprised of programs. To run a program, we need to make a copy of it in RAM so our CPU can process it. When you 
 see a new phone or laptop that's says it has 16 gigs of RAM, that means it can run up to 16 gigs of programs, meaning you can 
 run lots of programs at the same time. 
 there are lots of types of RAM. And the one is commonly found in computers, 
 is DRAM or dynamic random access memory. Where a one or zero is sent to DRAM, it source each bit in a microscopic capacitor. 
 This is either the charge or discharge represented by one or zero. These semiconductors are put into chips that are on the RAM 
 and store our data. There are also different types of memory states that DRAM chips can be put on. The more modern DIMM sticks, 
 which usually stands for Dual Inline Memory Module, have different sizes of pins on them. I should call out, we don't really buy 
 RAM based on the number of DRAM chips they have. They are labeled by the capacity of RAM on a stake, like an 8 gig stick of RAM. 
 After DRAM was created, RAM manufacturers build something called SDRAM which stands for Synchronous DRAM. This type of RAM is 
 synchronized to our systems' clock speed allowing quicker processing of data. In today's system, we use another type of RAM, 
 called double data rate SDRAM, or DDR SDRAM for short. Most people refer to this RAM as DDR, even shorter. There were lots of 
 iterations of DDR, from DDR1, DDR2, DDR3 and now, DDR4. DDR is faster, takes up less power, and has a larger capacity than earlier 
 SDRAM versions. The latest version, DDR4, is the fastest type of short term memory currently available for your computer. And faster
 RAM means that programs can be run faster and that more programs can run at the same time. Keep in mind that any RAM sticks you use
 need a compatible motherboard with a different number of pins aligned with the motherboard RAM slots. Just like with the CPU, make
 sure that your motherboard is compatible with any RAM sticks that you buy.
 
 Motherboard
 Every motherboard has a few key characteristics. First is the chipset, which decides how components talk to each other on our machine.
 The chipset on motherboards is made up of two chips. One is called the Northbridge that interconnects stuff like RAM and video cards. 
 The other chip is the Southbridge which maintains our IO or input/output controllers, like hard drives and USB devices that input and 
 output data. In some modern CPUs, the Northbridge has been directly integrated into the CPU so there isn't a separate Northbridge 
 chipset.A chipset is a key component of our motherboard that allows us to manage data between our CPU, RAM, and peripherals. 
 Peripherals are the external devices we connect to our computer like: a mouse, keyboard, and a monitor.
 In addition to the chipsets, motherboards have another key characteristic 
 which allows the use of expansion slots. Expansion slots also give us the ability to increase the functionality of our 
 computer. If you want to upgrade your graphics card, you could purchase one and just install it on your motherboard through
 the expansion slot. The standard for an expansion slot today is the PCI Express or Peripheral Component Interconnect Express.
 A PCIe bus looks like a slot on the motherboard and a PCIe base expansion card looks like a smaller circuit board. The last 
 component of motherboards that we'll discuss is form factor. There are different size of motherboards that are available today. 
 These sizes of form factors determine the amount of stuff we can put in it and the amount of space we'll have. The most common form
 factor for motherboards is ATX which stands for Advanced Technology eXtended. ATX actually comes in different sizes too. In desktops, 
 you'll commonly see full sized ATX's. If you don't want to use an ATX form factor, you could use an ITX or Information Technology 
 eXtended form factor. These are much smaller than ATX boards. For example, the Intel NUC uses a variation of the ITX board which
 comes in three board sizes; mini-ITX, nano-ITX, and pico-ITX. When building your computer, you will need to keep in mind what type 
 of form factor you want. Do you want to build something small that can't handle as much workload? Or, do you want a powerhouse 
 workstation that you can add lots of functionality to? The form factor will also play a role into what expansion slots you might
 want to use. 

Hard Drive
There are two basic hard drive types used today. Hard disk drives, or HDDs, use a spinning platter and a mechanical arm to read and 
write information. The speed that the platter rotate allows you to read and write data faster. This is commonly referred to as RPM, 
or revolution per minute. A hard drive with a higher RPM is faster, so if you go out and buy a hard drive today, you might see 
something like a 500 gigabyte with 5400 RPM. HDDs are prone to a lot more damage because there are a lot of moving parts.
This susceptibility to damage went away with a new type of storage called solid state drive, or SSD. SSDs have no moving parts. 
Are you familiar with a USB stick? SSDs are created in a similar way. The information is stored on microchips and data travels a
lot faster than HDDs. The form factor for SSDs is also slimmer compared to their HDD cousins. Sounds great, doesn't it? So why doesn't 
everyone use SSDs? Well, both have their pros and cons. HDDs are more affordable, but they're more prone to damage. SSDs are less risky 
when it comes to losing data, but they're also more expensive. So you may not buy as much memory storage in SSDs than what you can get
in HDDs. Believe it or not, there are even hybrid SSD and HDD drives out there. They offer SSD performance where you need it. 
For things like system performance, such as booting your computer, along with hard disk drives for less important stuff, like 
basic file storage. nstead of using a cable to connect your drive to your machine, the drive was added as an expansion slot, which allows 
for greater throughput of data and increased efficiency.

Interfaces
There are a few interfaces that hard drives use to connect to our system. ATA interfaces are the most common ones. The most popular 
ATA drive is a serial ATA, or SATA, which uses one cable for data transfers. SATA drives are hot swappable. It means you don't have to 
turn off your machine to plug in a SATA drive. SATA drives move data faster and use a more efficient cable, like this one, than it's
predecessors. SATA has been the de facto interface for HDDs today. But people quickly found that using a SATA cable wasn't good enough 
for some of the blazing fast SSDs that were coming on the market. The interface couldn't keep up with speed of the newest SSDs.
So another interface standard was created called NVM Express, or NVMe.

Power Supplies
in order to get our computer to work, let's give it some power. Computers have a power supply that converts electricity from your 
volt to something usable. There are two types of electricity, DC, or direct current, which flows in one direction and AC, or 
alternating current, which changes directions constantly. Our computers use DC voltage, so we have to have a way to convert the
AC voltage from our power company to something we can use. That's what our power supply does. It converts the AC we get from the
wall into low voltage DC power that we can use and transmit throughout our computer. So let's talk about power supplies. I actually 
have one right here. Let me show you how one looks like. Let me take it out right here.
So most power supply units have a fan, which is right in here. They also has voltage information just normally listed underneath
or on the side, and cables, like this one, to power your motherboard, and, A power cable.
Have you ever plugged one of your devices into the wall outlet and fried your device? If you haven't, you're really lucky. After 
completing this lesson, hopefully you will know how to avoid that situation. To understand electricity, we must use the example of 
water pipes. Our sinks have a faucet that's connected to a pressurized water tank. When we turn on the faucet, water comes out. 
This is sort of like how electricity works. When we plug an appliance into a wall outlet and turn it on, a flow of electricity comes
out. If we added more pressure to our water tank, would more water come out of it? The higher the pressure, the more water there will
be. When it comes to electricity, we refer to the pressure as voltage. So when I was on vacation, to my surprise, when I plugged in
that 120 volt appliance into a 220 volt outlet, the power came busting through and fried my charger. If it was the other way around,
and a 220 volt appliance was plugged into a 120 volt outlet, I wouldn't have seen the same outcome. I'll still be able to get 
electricity, but slowly. This would be similar to if a water tank whose only half pressurized, it will drew water, but slowly.
In some cases though, this can deteriorate the performance of the device and cause damage in the long term. As a general rule,
be sure to use the proper voltage for your electronics. We refer to the amount of electricity coming out as current or amperage, 
and it's measured in amps. We can think of amps as pulling electricity, as opposed to voltage, which pushes electricity. Amps will
pull as much electricity needed, but voltage will just give you everything. Look on the back of the one of your device charges, 
you might see something like 1 or 2.1a. Charging a device with 2.1 amps will actually charge a device faster because it's able to 
put current from a 2.1 amp than a 1 amp charger. Finally, the other important part of the electricity that you will need to know is 
the wattage. Wattage is the amount of volts and amps that a device needs. If your power supply has too low of a wattage, you won't 
be able to power your computer, so make sure you have enough. This doesn't mean that if you have a large power supply, you'll overpower 
your computer. Power supplies just give you the amount that your system needs. It's best to error on the side of large power supplies.
You can power most basic desktops with a 500 watt power supply, but if you're doing something more demanding on your computer, like 
playing a high-resolution video game or doing a lot of video production and rendering, you'll likely need a bigger power supply for 
your computer. On the other hand, if all you're doing is just browsing the Web, the power supply that comes with your computer should 
be fine. All kinds of issues are caused by a bad power supply. Sometimes the computer doesn't even turn on at all. Since power supplies
can fail for lots of reasons like burnouts, power surges, or even lightning strikes, knowing how to diagnose power issues and replace a 
failed power supply is a skill every IT support specialist should have in their toolbox.

Mobile Devices 
Mobile devices are usually very integrated. Remember the systems that we showed you earlier, the components can be taken out and held
in your hand. Mobile devices build some or all of these components together in a way that you can't take apart. The smaller the device,
the more integrated the components usually are. The CPU, RAM, and storage, might be soldered directly to the devices motherboard. 
Very small mobile devices use a system on a chip or SoC. A system on a chip packs the CPU, RAM, and sometimes even the storage onto 
a single chip. Not only our SoC is small, they use less battery power than if those components were separated. Even though they're 
small, some mobile devices use peripherals. Smartphones connect to Bluetooth headphones for example. Mobile devices can also be a 
peripheral. A fitness tracker is a standalone device, but it can also be a peripheral to your smartphone. That same fitness tracker 
might use a heart rate monitor as a peripheral. It's peripherals all the way down. Mobile devices may use standard or proprietary 
ports and connectors. You might need to have a specific adapter, or connector for charging a device, or connecting your mobile device
to a computer. Sometimes the physical shape or the intended use of the mobile device makes a standard connection like USB a bad choice.
For example, say you have a waterproof fitness tracker. If it had a Micro-USB port, that port would be damaged if exposed to water. 
So instead, it's designed with a custom charging interface that can be submerged underwater, here's some of the standard power, data,
and display connector types you'll find used in mobile devices. This is a USB-C, next we have a lightening adapter, then a Mini-USB,
and a Micro-USB, a Micro-HDMI, and a Mini-HDMI, and this is a Mini DisplayPort. Because mobile devices are generally small and have 
limited access to power, they run operating systems and applications software that specifically designed to maximize their performance.

Batteries and charging systems
Sometimes instead of being plugged into a power outlet all the time, we want to take our technology with us. Mobile technology uses 
rechargeable batteries to carry power with the device, wherever we take it. Rechargeable devices might have an external charger for 
a removable batteries, or might have a cradle stand or wireless charger. So rechargeable devices might have an external charger for 
movable battery, or might have a cradle stand or wireless charger. Look at this phone. We're going to top up the battery just by laying 
it on this wireless inductive charging pad. Isn't that cool? It's also pretty clever technology. If you want to know how this works, 
check out the next reading. Rechargeable batteries have a limited lifespan which is measured in charge cycles. Charge cycle is one full 
charge and discharge of the battery. When a battery is reaching the end of its lifespan, it may take longer to charge and might not 
hold as much charge as when it was new. For some devices, compare the current cycle count of your battery with the rate at cycle count
of that battery type to see how much more life to expect out of it. You need an external power source to add power to a battery. This 
could come from a wall outlet, another battery, or even a solar panel. You also need a charging circuit that manages the power transfer 
from the external power source to the rechargeable battery. This circuit works a lot like a power supply unit or PSU, that we looked 
at earlier. It makes sure the input power is converted to the correct output power. Instead of using a large PSU, rechargeable devices
use more portable power adapters, power supplies, or chargers. A portable power supply, powers our device while also charging the 
battery. This might sound obvious, but you need to make sure that you use the right charger for the right device. Mismatching chargers
to devices can damage the battery, the device, and the charger. A lot of chargers and power supplies use USB connectors, but you'll 
see a wide variety of charging connectors. Rechargeable batteries can be damaged by very cold or very hot environments. Don't charge 
or discharge rechargeable batteries unless they're within their safe operating temperature range. It's not just that a damaged
rechargeable battery might not perform well, it can also be very dangerous. Batteries can swell, rupture, and sometimes even catch
fire. Before working with a damaged battery, you should know how to safely handle it. You'll find some supplemental readings after 
this video that explains how to safely handle lithium ion batteries, which is a very common type of rechargeable battery. Safe 
handling procedures vary based on the battery type, so be sure to read up on proper procedures before you work with a damaged batter.
When a battery reaches the end of its life, you'll need to replace it. Some devices will slow themselves down when a battery is getting
old, to make the battery lasts longer. If your device is running much slower than usual or shutting down unexpectedly, one thing to
check is the battery life. Some devices have batteries that are designed to be replaced by the end user, other devices have batteries
that are very difficult to replace like small laptops and mobile devices. As an IT support specialist, you might receive special 
training on how to replace batteries and devices that you support, or you might be the person sending the device out for battery
replacement and then returning the device to the end user. IT support specialist often have to troubleshoot battery life and device 
charging. The first step is to make sure the charger, the battery, and the device, are all designed to work with each other.
We'll talk about sending out devices for repair and troubleshooting skills in future videos, so stay tuned. For iOS and Android, 
there are also some things that you could do to make the battery lasts as long as possible. It's a good idea for you to be familiar 
with these things so that you can help educate end users on the best ways to get the most out of their mobile devices. Check out the 
supplemental readings to learn more.

Peripheral 
back of our computer again. Here, you'll see lots of connectors or ports. We can plug in different objects like a mouse, keyboard, 
and a monitor. These are known as peripherals. A peripheral is basically anything that you connect to your computer externally that 
adds functionality. You probably used USB devices before. USB, also known as Universal Serial Bus devices are the most popular 
connections for our gadgets. USB has gone through lots of changes since inception. You most commonly encounter USB 2.0, USB 3.0, and 
3.1 in today's system. Here's a quick rundown of the different versions. USB 2.0 transfers speeds of 480 megabytes per second, 
USB 3.0 transfers speeds of five gigabytes per second, USB 3.1 transfers speeds of 10 gigabytes per second. In the chart, let's
pay attention to the details. Using capital M lowercase b forward slash s instead of using capital M capital B to reference transfer 
speed. These are actually different units. MB is megabyte or unit of data storage, while capital M lower case b forward slash s is a
megabit per second, which is a unit of data transfer rate. People often mistake speeds of 40 megabit per second to mean that you
can transfer 40 megabytes of data per second. Remember, that one byte is 8 bits, so to transfer a one megabyte file in a second
you need an 8 megabits per second connection speed. So, to transfer 40 megabytes of data in a second, you need a transfer speed of 
240 megabits per second. You'll also need comparable USB ports to go with your devices. If you connect a USB 2.0 device into a USB 
3.0 port, you won't get 3.0 transfer speeds. But you can still use the port since it's backward compatible, meaning older hardware 
work with newer hardware. The ports are easy to differentiate. Let me show you. In general, USB 2.0 are black and USB 3.0 are blue 
and 3.1 ports are teal. This may change depending on manufacturers. There are lots of types of USB connectors, and you can read about 
all of them in the supplemental reading right after this video. Check it out. Back to USB connectors. The most recent one is the type 
C connector which is meant to replace many peripheral connections. It's quickly becoming a universal standard for display and data 
transfer. In addition to USB peripherals, you should also be aware of display peripherals. There are some common inputs standards to
know. Most computer monitors will have one or more of these connections, but you might encounter some older standards too. 

DVI. DVI cables generally just output video. If you need to hook up a monitor or projector for a slide presentation and you want audio
too, you may be out of luck. Instead, you want to look at one of the following cables. HDMI. This has become a standard in lots of
televisions and computers nowadays and outputs both video and audio. Another standard that's become popular among manufacturers is a 
displayPort which also outputs audio and video. In addition to audio and video, USB type C can also do data transfer and power. 

As an IT support specialist, you'll work with peripherals like USB devices and display devices a lot. Now, you'll be able to
distinguish between the major types.

BIOS 
Okay, now we've seen all the key components to get our computer running. The last thing we'll go over is how our devices talk 
to each other. We know how programs execute from our hard drive to our CPU, but how do other things like a mouse click or a 
keyboard press get sent to our CPU for processing? These are fairly basic devices, they don't contain any instructions that our 
CPU knows how to read.

If you just clicked on the key from your keyboard, you'd only be sending a byte to the CPU. The CPU doesn't know what this is, 
because it doesn't have instructions on how to deal with it. Turns out our devices also use programs to tell the CPU how to run them.
These programs are called services or drivers. The drivers contain the instructions our CPU needs to understand external devices
like keyboards, webcams, printers. Our CPU doesn't know that there is a device that it can talk to, so it has to connect to something 
called the BIOS, or basic input output services. The BIOS is software that helps initialize the hardware in our computer and gets our 
operating system up and running.

Unlike the programs, you're probably used to running a web browser or operating system. The BIOS isn't stored on a hard drive. 
Our motherboard stores the BIOS in a special type of memory called, the read-only memory chip, or ROM chip.

Unlike RAM, ROM is non-volatile, meaning it won't erase the data if the computer is turned off. Once the operating system loads, 
we're able to load drivers from non-essential devices, directly from the hard drive. In today's system, there is another player for
BIOS called UEFI, which stands for Unified Extensible Firmware Interface. UEFI performs the same function of starting your computer 
as a traditional BIOS. But it's more modern and has better compatibility and support for newer hardware. Most hardware out there
today comes with UEFI built in. Eventually, UEFI will become the predominant BIOS.
When you turn on a computer, you might notice a beeping from time to time. How computers run a test to make sure all the hardware
is working correctly. This is called a Power On Self Test or POST. And then BIOS runs it when you boot up your computer.
The POST figures out what hardware is on the computer. So it happens before the BIOS initializes any hardware or loads up
essential drivers. If there is an issue with anything at that point, there is no way to display it on the screen, since things
like the video driver haven't been loaded. Instead, the computer can usually produce a series of beeps, almost like Morse code, 
which will help identify the problem. Different manufacturers have different beep codes. So, if your computer successfully boots up,
you may hear a single beep.

If you hear two beeps, it could mean a POST error.
It's best to refer to your motherboard manual to find out what each code means.

Also, you should know that not all machines have built-in speakers, so don't worry if your computer boots without a beep.

If it does have a built-in speaker, being able to distinguish what the beep codes mean is an extremely helpful tool when 
troubleshooting boot issues. One last thing, we will discuss are BIOS settings.

There is a special chip on our motherboard called the CMOS battery.

It stores basic data about booting your computer like the date, time and how you wanted to start up. 
You can change these settings by booting into CMOS or BIOS setting menu. It varies in different computers, 
but usually when you boot the computer, there will be a quick screen that tells you what button to push to get into the settings.

From there, you can change the basic BIOS settings of your machine.

Building the computer:
Beware Static electricity
Motherboard (make sure it fits computer case - aka form factor 
screw motherboard in
put in CPU, secure it 
heat sink
Thermal paste 
Screw in heat sink - opposite sides first
Plug molex to motherboard (controls fan speed via motherboard)
Install RAM into dimslots
Hard drive
use one SATA cable to connect our SSD to our motherboard.    Make sure you connect the SATA power plug to the SSD. SATA cables can only
go in one way.
install our case fan.
And this is how this looks like. One thing to note is the small x. 
You're going to go ahead and find a label on your motherboard that says, rear fans.
Not all motherboards have this, but in this example, we do have that, so just to note.
We get those into the grooves, there you go. My fan's installed, and now I'm going to
go ahead and attach this to the Molex.
There we go, now my fan is attached to my motherboard.
For best practice, you want to create a wind tunnel that takes in air,
blows it over your components, and then pushes it all out back. 
Check out how our heat sink has a fan on it too. That's pretty normal, 
since our CPU generates a lot of heat, and we want to help cool it off as best as we can.
Now connect power supply 
secure power supply
And just another note, you can also install the power supply before adding it to the motherboard, 
depending on how your case is laid out.

connectors
This big one right here, this is the one that powers our motherboard.
Another one that we have, it's more of a legacy one is this four pin Molex. 
These connectors were used heavily before SATA came out.
Now, we use these connectors to power majority of the SATA devices today.
Most modern machines today will probably use SATA power connectors for your hard drives so that it may 
come with Molex to SATA adapters. Now, it's time for the fun part. 
First, let's go ahead and connect our power supply to our motherboard. So that's this big pin as we discussed earlier. 
It's going to go in right here.
And plug that in like so.
Next, we're going to go ahead and power the CPU, with this A pin Molex right here. It's pretty tight, but you should be 
able to get it in.
There you go. So what we just did was we have the power supply that is powering the motherboard and the CPU. 
So now that we've hooked up the cable to our CPU and motherboard, the next thing that we need to hook up are these cables 
that are sitting in our case. This is going to vary from case to case, but let's go through it. Some of these cables are 
used for your case's buttons and lights. So for this one, I'm going to plug these in.
so our case cables are now secured to our motherboard. One good idea is sometimes your motherboard will come with some 
guides. This will help you fasten your cables to your motherboard so it's clean and tight on your case. 
I'm just going to go ahead and do that right here.
Now that we have our cables securely fastened to our case, let's don't forget one more thing, our 
graphics card.
We'll need that so that we can upload video to our monitor. We're going to plug this graphics card 
into our PCI-Express slot on our motherboard.
Just like the RAM, you are going to put a little bit of pressure when you insert this in. So don't
feel bad by putting a little bit of pressure and you'll hear a click like this.
Once you've done it, you can tightly secure it to your case. This is going to vary from case to case.
And there you go, your graphics card has been installed. All right, I think that's it. Let's cover up our computer.
First make sure you take your anti-static brace right away.
Get our case.
Put that in like so, and just plug, and that's it.
There you go, we finally built our machine. 
Last but not least, let's connect our monitor, keyboard, and mouse to the desktop.
So first, let's get our keyboard. What we're going to do is we're going to connect this USB to the USB port on our desktop.
Then we'll going to get our mouse, do the same thing. Connect this to our USB port.
And then finally we're going to go ahead and connect our monitor. For this monitor, we're going to go ahead 
and use a display port cable. I want to connect one end to our desktop, like so. Next, I want to plug this into my monitor.
All right, this is the most interesting part. Let's see if all this works.
So I'm going to power it on.
I got a blue light, which is good. And of course it's going to vary from system to system.
Let's see if something shows up on the monitor.
So computer is booting up.
Let's see, okay it looks like the monitor is receiving signal, which is good.
There we have messages, success, there we go, it's working, perfect. 
If you're having issues with your computer not starting up, that's okay. 
Check that your power supply can supply the correct amount of wattage or make sure your connectors are in the right place.
What's this? Non-system disk or disk error, replace and strike any key when ready.
It looks like our disk doesn't have an operating system to boot into, no worries. 
That's what we'll be discussing in the next set of lessons.
We'll learn what an operating system is and what the main operating systems are and how to 
install one. Well good job, you've got your computer up and running and the monitor is receiving signal, 
so that's it. Let's take a moment and think about what you just did, not only did you learn about each component
of a computer, but you figured out how they work individually and then we built one together. 
 


Building the computer text:
Now that we've learned what
the computer components are and how they work we're going to assemble our
very own computer, a full size desktop. Computers are incredibly fundamental to
the work of an IT support specialist. There used in pretty much
every aspect of the job. Aside from work, knowing how to build
a computer might inspire you to try all kinds of cool stuff. You could custom build a gaming rig to
play the most advanced game at the highest setting or like me make a home media
server for all you photos and videos. Knowing how to build a computer
is a skill that can be useful in lots of interesting ways. Before we get started,
let's lay down some ground rules for this ground up build, sorry,
I cannot help myself. We should think about
electrostatic discharge and try to prevent unwanted static from
harming our very expensive components. Have you ever rubbed yourself socks on a
carpet and then accidentally zap someone? That's pretty harmless, but
if you that to your new motherboard, you completely destroy it. So how do we prevent static discharge? We can go about this in two ways, we can touch in our two device that's
plugged in but not powered on. FYI, you should do this every couple of
minutes when assembling a new computer. Another option is to wear an anti-static
wristband like the one I have here, let me get it. You connect the end of the clip to
a non-painted metal surface like your computer. And then you separate on to your hands and
voila your done. While we are on the subject
of anti-static safety, I want to call out that when
you buy computer parts, they'll come in anti-static bags to
prevent accidental static electricity. Be sure to keep them inside the bags until
you need to install them on your computer. Now, let's get making this computer, we'll
start by laying down the foundation of our computer, the motherboard. Remember, there are lots of different
form factors for motherboards and you want to make sure the one you
purchase fits your computer case. We purchased the full size desktop cased
and have a full size ATX motherboard. On the motherboard there
are a lot of screw holes which coincide with the holes
in the desktop case too. You want to match up the holes on the
motherboard to the holes on the desktop. Once you figure out which holes
to use screw in standoffs. Standoffs are used to raise and
attach your motherboard to the case. In this instance our case
has built in standoffs. Let's start start adding on components. Let's start by adding our components in. We'll start with the CPU, so let's
take that out of our anti-static bag. You want to be very careful with these
because they're very expensive, and you don't want to drop them. Once we've taken out the bag, let's line
up the CPU with the motherboard's socket. Something to note is
this marker right here. This has to align with the CPU
socket on the motherboard. Also don't forget to make sure you get
compatible CPU that fit your motherboard. We have a LGA CPU and
an LGA-compatible motherboard socket. So let's go ahead and align
the correct orientation of the CPU and secure it in place like this. So like mentioned before, you want to make sure that the pointers
on the CPU and the socket are aligned. The easy part is putting the CPU in. The fun part is securing this,
just note that when you secure the CPU in the socket you do need to use
a bit of force so it's tightly secured in. Perfect, so
now the CPU is secured in the socket. Now that our CPU is in place we need
to add our heat sink on top of it. The heat sink is used to
dissipate heat from our CPU. I want to show you some cool things. This part right here, this is what
our CPU relies on to stay cool. It takes the heat from there and
then uses this fan to blow it out. Before we attach the heat sink, we need
to apply an even amount of thermal paste. Let me get that,
this is the thermal paste. Thermal paste is used to better
connect our CPU and heat sink. So the heat transfers
from to the other better. To get started,
apply a dab of thermal paste and spread evenly with a flat object. Lets do that on our CPU right here. So first thing that you want to do is slowly apply a slight dab on the CPU like so. Then with the flat object,
apply the thermal paste evenly throughout your CPU to go half way
right here, half way right here, Half way right here, and
then half way right here. Just make sure that it spread
evenly throughout the CPU. You may have to do this multiple
times to get this correct. Okay, so once you have that in place,
you're going to take your heat sink and then you're going to
press it against the CPU. And something to note is that
these screws right here, they align with the CPU socket. So that can guide you while
you put the heat sink on. Great, once you have all
four sockets aligned, go ahead and get your screw driver and
then tighten down the sockets. So one thing to do, is to make sure that
you screw the opposite sides first so you know that the heat
sink is attached securely. So one thing I like to do again is
just kind of go over my screws to make sure everything
is tightened securely. Great, now that our screws are tightly
on in our heat sink secured to the CPU You have to plug
this Molex to the motherboard. This is important because this is
what controls the fan speed via the motherboard. Perfect. So now, you've fully installed and
connected your CPU to the motherboard. Next, let's install our RAM. Located DIMM slots on your motherboard. So, these are the DIMM slots
like we discussed before. I have four slots available here and
I have four RAM sticks. Let me pick those up. These are my RAM sticks, and
of course, they're in my anti-static bag Let's take them out. So, as I mentioned before, this build,
we're going to use DDR3 RAM. All right, one thing I like to do before
I install my RAM is to make sure that I align these slots with my RAM slots so that way I'm not going to be forcing
those in when it's time to install. So, if you see right here,
your slots are right in the middle so something I do is before I put it in,
just visually make sure that you got this right and then align the rest of your
RAM sticks to the same position like this. You just want to go like this. Like this. And like this. That way, you're not going to be damaging
your pins if you pick your RAM sticks up and accidentally force it in. So now we've got that, we're going to
put this in this slot right here. Line up the pins correctly and
push in the RAM until you hear it click. You'll know it's secure when both
sides of the RAMs are locked in place. And there's something
else you should know. Your slots right here,
they are both black and white. We're going to stick to
using the white slots. This too. And we're also going to
put this one right here. There you go.
You've securely fastened your RAM inside your motherboard. Next, we have our hard drive. In this example, we're using an SSD SATA
hard drive instead of a HDD. We just need to use one SATA cable
to connect it to our motherboard. So, first, I'm going to go ahead and
slot this in this cage This is going to vary from case to case,
but this one's going to be easy. All we have to,
we just slide it in like so. And normally you will hear a click,
[SOUND] Like that. Once that's in, we just need to use one SATA cable to
connect our SSD to our motherboard. Let me go and get that. So here we go. Here's a SATA cable. So what I'm going to do, is I'm
going to connect this end to our SSD. I'm going to connect this
end to our motherboard. There we go, it's in. Remember, SATA cables
can only go in one way. So now that we have our SSD installed,
let's go ahead and install our case fan. And this is how this looks like. One thing to note is the small x. You're going to go ahead and find a label
on your motherboard that says, rear fans. Not all motherboards have this, but
in this example, we do have that, so just to note. We get those into the grooves,
there you go. My fan's installed, and now I'm going to
go ahead and attach this to the Molex. There we go,
now my fan is attached to my motherboard. For best practice, you want to create
a wind tunnel that takes in air, blows it over your components,
and then pushes it all out back. Check out how our heat
sink has a fan on it too. That's pretty normal,
since our CPU generates a lot of heat, and we want to help cool it
off as best as we can. We're almost done. Now, we're going to connect our power and
test to see if everything's working. So let's grab our power supply. Here we are. First, let's secure our
power supply to our case. Be careful not to damage
the motherboard when you install it. What you're going to do is you're going to
put this in slowly like that, And then just slide it in. There you go. One thing I like to do, is I'd like to put
my cables all the way out to the side, so like I mentioned before, it's not going to
go ahead and damage the motherboard. So now, I'm going to go ahead and
start securing our power supply. Its always fun getting in. There we go So as you can see, I normally like
to go and start with my fingers, so it's easier to get in. And once I put all my screws in,
I'm going to go ahead and use my screw driver and
fasten it, tighten that. There you go. So let's go ahead and
tighten our screws right here. [INAUDIBLE] And four. Great. So now, we've secured our
power supply to the case so it's not going to move anywhere. And just another note,
you can also install the power supply before adding it to the motherboard,
depending on how your case is laid out. Lets go back to our mess of connectors. There are a few things I
would like to highlight. This big one right here, this is
the one that powers our motherboard. Another one that we have, it's more of
a legacy one is this four pin Molex. These connectors were used
heavily before SATA came out. Now, we use these connectors to power
majority of the SATA devices today. Most modern machines today will
probably use SATA power connectors for your hard drives so that it may
come with Molex to SATA adapters. Now, it's time for the fun part. First, let's go ahead and connect
our power supply to our motherboard. So that's this big pin
as we discussed earlier. It's going to go in right here. And plug that in like so. Next, we're going to go ahead and power
the CPU, with this A pin Molex right here. It's [INAUDIBLE] pretty tight, but
you should be able to get it in. There you go. So what we just did was we have the power
supply that is powering the motherboard and the CPU. So now that we've hooked up the cable
to our CPU and motherboard, the next thing that we need to hook up are
these cables that are sitting in our case. This is going to vary from case to case,
but let's go through it. Some of these cables are used for
your case's buttons and lights. So for this one,
I'm going to plug these in. Okay. Okay, so our case cables are now
secured to our motherboard. One good idea is sometimes your
motherboard will come with some guides. This will help you fasten your cables
to your motherboard so it's clean and tight on your case. I'm just going to go ahead and
do that right here. Now that we have our cables
securely fastened to our case, let's don't forget one more thing,
our graphics card. We'll need that so
that we can upload video to our monitor. We're going to plug this graphics
card into our PCI-Express slot on our motherboard. Just like the RAM, you are going to put a little bit of
pressure when you insert this in. So don't feel bad by putting
a little bit of pressure and you'll hear a click like this. Once you've done it,
you can tightly secure it to your case. This is going to vary from case to case. And there you go,
your graphics card has been installed. All right, I think that's it. Let's cover up our computer. First make sure you take your
anti-static brace right away. Get our case. Put that in like so, and
just plug, and that's it. There you go,
we finally built our machine. Last but not least,
let's connect our monitor, keyboard, and mouse to the desktop. So first, let's get our keyboard. What we're going to do is we're going to
connect this USB to the USB port on our desktop. Then we'll going to get our mouse,
do the same thing. Connect this to our USB port. And then finally we're going to
go ahead and connect our monitor. For this monitor, we're going to go
ahead and use a display port cable. I want to connect one end to our desktop,
like so. Next, I want to plug this into my monitor. All right,
this is the most interesting part. Let's see if all this works. So I'm going to power it on. I got a blue light, which is good. And of course it's going to
vary from system to system. Let's see if something
shows up on the monitor. So computer is booting up. Let's see, okay it looks like the monitor
is receiving signal, which is good. There we have messages, success,
there we go, it's working, perfect. If you're having issues with your
computer not starting up, that's okay. Check that your power supply can supply
the correct amount of wattage or make sure your connectors
are in the right place. What's this? Non-system disk or disk error,
replace and strike any key when ready. It looks like our disk doesn't have an
operating system to boot into, no worries. That's what we'll be discussing
in the next set of lessons. We'll learn what
an operating system is and what the main operating systems are and
how to install one. Well good job, you've got your
computer up and running and the monitor is receiving signal,
so that's it. Let's take a moment and
think about what you just did, not only did you learn about each
component of a computer, but you figured out how they work individually
and then we built one together. It's quite an accomplishment. For your next assignment, we build
a widget that will let you assemble a computer digitally, putting all
the different parts together or if you have all the computer
parts already, you can assemble one in real life and then write a short
review process of how you did it. If you get stuck, don't worry, go back and review the different videos
covering the various components. I know you can do it. I've had lots of fun teaching you
all about hardware and don't worry, we'll meet again soon when you make
it to the system administration IT infrastructure services course. Next up, my good friend, Cindy Quach, is going to introduce
you to operating systems. Operating systems are absolutely essential
in IT considering that without them none of this hardware we've discussed
would be able to accomplish anything. 


Repairing a mobile device
Repairing a mobile device is different from repairing larger, more generic computers. First, there are thousands of 
types of mobile devices. There's no way we can cover all the differences. Instead, let's check out some of the tools and 
techniques that you rely on to keep mobile devices in your organization running. As an IT support specialist, you might 
receive training in this area and be responsible for repairing devices that your organization owns. Before you attempt 
any repairs, make sure you're familiar with your organization's policy around mobile device repair. Depending on the device, 
you may or may not be able to repair it on your own, but not so fast. Keep in mind that even when you can repair a device on your own,
it will usually void the warranty. So check the impact on the warranty before working on a device. With specific training, 
you might be able to perform some repairs without violating the warranty of the device. For example, you might be allowed to 
replace a cracked smartphone screen without avoiding the warranty. But you're probably not permitted to replace a damaged 
charging port. If you're not allowed to perform your own repairs, then it may be your job to send the device out for repair 
or replacement with an outside vendor or manufacturer. You should know and understand the return merchandise authorization or
RMA process for each device that you deal with. The devices' warranty or the service agreement that your organization has with
the devices manufacturer will determine how and when it'll be repaired or replaced. Depending on the device and your organization's 
policies, you might also need to make sure that there's no proprietary or personal data on the device before it's sent off for repair
by doing a factory reset on the device. A factory reset will remove all data, apps, and customizations from the device.
We'll talk a lot more about factory resets and backing up in user data in future videos. For now, just keep in mind that
the end user should be told what will happen to their data when a device is sent off for service. When repairing a mobile device, 
follow the same best practices that we showed you for working on a PC. Protect against static discharge, use the right tools, 
keep parts organized and labeled, taking pictures along the way can help a lot too, follow vendor documentation, and test
the device to make sure it still works.


















